# Interview Questions

### Checklist

- Research about the company
- Know the job role (Clearly check JD)
- Prepare for commom interview questions
- Prepare questions for interviewer
- Update your resume and portfolio
- Plan your attire
- Confirmation of interview
- Practice mock interview
- Prepare prev.yr questions
- Communicate polite with HR

### Project Section

- What you build
- What tech stack you used
- What was your contribution clearly
- Challenges you faced and how you solved them (STAR Method)

### C Questions

- Header file
- Is the main function necessary?
- Can a program compile without the main function?
- Data types (int, char, etc.,)
- Storage classes (extern, static, global)
- Pointers (void pointer, null pointer, arrow operator)
- Tokens, literals, string literals
- Control statements (if-else, switch case, nested if-loops)
- What is springf() function?
- What is the difference between declaration and definition of a variable?
- How are negative numbers stored in memory?
- What are the different types of auto storage specifiers in C?
  - **Auto Storage class specifier** for local variables, meaning the variable is created when the block is entered and destroyed when exited
  - **Static Storage class specifier** variable retains its value between function calls and is intialized only once
  - **Extern Storage class specifier** refers to variable or function defined in another file or function
  - **Register Storage class specifier** suggests to the compiler that the variable should be stored in a CPU register for faster access
 
### C++ Questions

- Datatypes
- Arrays
- Linked List
- Sorting
- Queue
- Modular Programming
- Call by value vs Call by reference
- Pointer vs function pointer
- Namespace usage
- Shallow vs deep copy
- Hashing - concept and use
- Pure virtual and virtual functions
- What is difference between Struct and Class in C++?
- What are dangling pointers?
  - A dangling pointers is a pointer that still points to a memory location that has been deallocated
  - This situation occurs when an object is deleted or goes out of scope, but the pointer that was pointing to the object still exists
  - And refers to the invalid memory address
  - Example:
    int * foo {
      int x = 10;
      return &x;
    }
  - Solutions to avoid dangling pointers: set the pointer to nullptr after freeing the memory
    - delete ptr;
    - ptr = nullptr;
  
### Python Questions

- Datatypes
- Operators
- File Handling (read(). readline(), readlines(), file modes - r, w, rw)
- swapcase function
- Istrip() (removing leading spaces)
- List vs Tuple

### HTML, CSS, JS Questions

- What is the difference between HTML and HTML5?
- Explain CSS Flexbox and Grid
  - Flexbox: One - dimensional layout (row or column) for flexible items
  - Grid: Two dimensional layout (row or column) for structed designs
- What is DeepCall in javascript?

### Java Questions

- What are the key features of java?
- What are java packages?
- Difference between package and module in java?
- Explain Garbage Collection in java
- How objects of a class are created when there is no constructor is defined in the class?
- How can we make a copy of java object?
- Exaplin final, this, super and static keywords in java?
- What is Exception Handling? What are its types?
- Explain try, catch, finally keywords in java
- What is the difference between final and finally?
- What is the difference between throw and throws?
- What is synchronized keyword in java?
- How does java reduces the chances of a program going out of memory?
- What do you mean by checked exception?
- Difference between inner class and sub class
- What is an immnutable class?
- How an object is serialized in java?
- When we should use serialization?
- How can we restrict a certain variables of a class from getting serialized?
- Why is runnable interface used in java?
- How java enabled high performance?
- What is JIT compiler?
- What is Singleton class?
- What is a static variable?
- Why is String called immutable?
- What is static method?
- Explain the importance of finalize() method
- Is it possible to pass arguement to a function by reference instead of pass by value in java?
- Can a class have multiple constructors?
- Can we use pointers in java class?
- What are the two ways of implementing multi - threading in java?
- How can we ensure that a resource isn't used by multiple threads simultaneously?
- How do you find common elements between two arrays using Java 8
- Difference between Lambda expression and method reference
- Tell some of functional interface that you know before Java 8
- What is an optional class?
- What are the benefits of using Java?
  - Portability: Java code can be run on any platform that has a Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
  - Security: Java has a built-in security model that helps to protect users from malicious code.
  - Object-oriented: Java is an OOP lang, which makes it easy to create modular and reusable code.
  - Robust: Java is a robust language that is designed to be reliable and efficient.
  - Widely used: Java is a widely used language that has a large community of support resources.
- What are the different components of the Java platform?
  - The Java platform is a software environment that provides a standard way for developing and running Java applications.
  - It consists of the following components:
    - Java Virtual Machine (JVM)
    - Java Runtime Environment (JRE)
    - Java Development Kit (JDK)
- What is the difference between JDK and JRE?
  - The JDK (Java Development Kit) is used by developers for creating Java applications which includes necessary tools and libraries.
  - The JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is used by end-users to run
  - Java applications and provides the runtime environment and essential class libraries, but does not include development tools.
- What are the different types of Java data types?
  - There are two types of data types in Java:
    - Primitive data types:
      - boolean
      - byte
      - short
      - int
      - long
      - float
      - double
      - char
    - Non-primitive data types:
      - String
      - Array
      - Class
      - Interface
      - Enum
- What is a class?
  - A class is a blueprint or template that defines the properties and behaviours of objects
  - It encapsulates data and functions that work on data
- What are the different types of Java classes & Java interfaces?
  - There are two main types of Java classes:
    - Normal class
    - Abstract class
  - Normal classes are the most common type of class in Java.
  - They can have fields, methods, and constructors.
  - Abstract classes are classes that cannot be instantiated.
  - They can only be used as a base class for other classes.
  - There are also two main types of Java interfaces:
  - Normal interfaces are a collection of abstract methods.
  - A class can implement an interface, thereby inheriting the abstract methods of the interface.
  - Marker interfaces are interfaces that do not contain any methods.
  - They are used to indicate that a class has a certain property or behavior.
- What are the different types of Java libraries & Java frameworks?
  - A Java library is a collection of reusable Java classes and interfaces.
  - A Java framework is a collection of reusable Java classes, interfaces, and code that provides specific functionality.
  - Some examples of Java libraries:
    - Apache Commons
    - Google Guava
    - Joda-Time
    - JUnit
    - Mockito
  - Some examples of Java frameworks:
    - Spring
    - Hibernate
    - JSF
    - Grails
    - Struts
- What are the different types of Java control statements?
  - There are three types of control statements in Java:
    - Decision-making statements (if, if else & switch)
    - Looping statements (while, do while & for)
    - Jump statements (continue & return)
- What are the different types of Java exceptions?
  - There are two types of exceptions in Java:
    - Checked exceptions
    - Unchecked exceptions
  - Checked exceptions are exceptions that must be declared in the method signature.
  - If a checked exception is thrown in a method, the method must either handle the exception or declare it to be thrown.
  - If the method does not handle the exception, the compiler will generate an error.
  - Unchecked exceptions are exceptions that do not need to be declared in the method signature.
  - Unchecked exceptions can be thrown by any method, and the compiler will not generate an error if they are not handled
- What is the purpose of Multithreading?
  - Multithreading enables the thread execution of multiple threads simultaneously, which helps in maximizing CPU utilization
  - It performs multiple tasks concurrently, improving the overall system performance
- What are the different types of Java threads?
  - There are two types of threads in Java:
    - User threads
    - Daemon threads
  - User threads are the threads that are created by the user or application.
  - They are high-priority threads and the JVM will wait for any user thread to finish its task before terminating it.
  - Daemon threads are the threads that are created to provide services to user threads.
  - They are low-priority threads and are only needed while user threads are running.
  - Once all user threads have finished their execution, the JVM will terminate even if there are daemon threads still running.
- What are the different types of Java networking?
  - There are two main types of Java networking:
    - Client-server networking
    - Peer-to-peer networking
  - Client-server networking is a type of networking where there is a client application that requests a service from a server application.
  - The server application then provides the service to the client application.
  - Peer-to-peer networking is a type of networking where two or more applications communicate directly with each other
  - Peer-to-peer network works without the need for a server.
- Programs:
  - Palindrome or not
  - Pyramid Pattern
  - Fibonacci series up to N terms
  - Find first 3 minimum and first 3 maximum values from the list of integers
  - Given a list of string, sort the list based on their length of the string
  - Find the age of the user in years using date of birth (Date-and-Time - Adv.java)

### DSA Questions (Working + Application + Implementation)

- What is Data Structures? and its types?
- What is recursion? Give an example
- What is the time complexity of Binary Search? Ans: O(Log N)
- Difference between Singly and Doubly Linked List
- Difference between Stack and Queue
- Advantages of Heap over Stack
- What are the constraints for selecting sorting algorithms?
  - Size of the array
  - Randomness of the array
  - Internal or external sort (Memory)
  - Stability requirement
  - Parallelizability
  - Time and Space complexity

### OOPS Questions

- Definition of OOPS
- Class and objects with real world examples
- Four pillars of OOPS with real world examples
- Access Modifiers (private, protected, public, default)
- What is an abstract class?
- What is an interface?
- Can we declare a class as Abstract without any abstract method?
- Inheritance and its types
- Benefits of using inheritance
- Can java support Multiple Inheritance?
- What are the two methods to restrict a class from being inherited in java?
- What is a constructor? What are its types?
- What is the difference between constructor and destructor?
- When is the constructor of a class is invoked?
- What is the order of constructor calls in Inheritance?
- Is it possible to use a default constructor even if an explicit constructor is defined?
- What is function overloading?
- What is operator overloading?
- Can we override a method by using same method name and arguements but different return types?
- What is the difference between object - oriented and object - based program?
  - Object - oriented programming:
    - Does not have built - in objects
    - Follows all OOPS concepts
    - Example: Java and C++
  - Object - based programming:
    - Has built - in objects
    - Does not support all OOPS concepts
    - It supports all objects and encapsulation
    - Example: JavaScript
- What is Static Binding and Dynamic Binding?
  - Static Binding: The method or function call is resolved at compile - time
  - It is the process of binding a function call to the function definition during compilation
  - Dynamic Binding: The method or function call is resolved at run - time
  - This is often used with Polymorphism, where the method being called is determined at execution time
- What do you mean by Polymorphism?
  - Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms
  - It allows a function or operator to behave different based on the context
  - Compile - time polymorphism: achieved using method overloading or operator overloading, resolved at compile - time
  - Run - time polymorphism: achieved through method overriding, resolved at run - time
- Implement:
  - Inheritance
  - Polymorphism
  - Abstraction
  - Encapsulation

### SQL Questions

- SQL vs NoSQL databases
- Tables vs Fields
- SQL datatypes
- Attributes, Constraints and their types
- Types of key (super, candidate, primary, alternate, composite, foreign, surrogate)
- CREATE table
- INSERT and UPDATE values in table
- ALTER table
- DELETE, DROP, TRUNCATE table
- WHERE, HAVING, GROUP BY, ORDER BY, LIMIT
- AGGREGATE and STRING functions
- JOINS (RIGHT JOIN, SELF JOIN, UNION vs UNION ALL)
- What is the difference between Primary and Foriegn key?
- What is the difference between DDL and DML commands?
  - Data Definition Language (DDL):
    - Used to modify database structure
    - Affects the entire table
    - Commands: CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE
  - Data Manipulation Language (DML):
    - Used to manipulate data within the database
    - Affects one or more rows
    - Commands: INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, SELECT
- What are the types of SQL Joins?
  - Inner Join: Returning matching rows from both tables
  - Left Join: Return all rows from the right table and matching rows from the left table
  - Full Join: Returns all rows when there is a match in table either table
  - Self Join: Joins a table itself
  - Cross Join: Returns a cartesian product of both tables
- What is TCL (Transaction Control Language)?
  - TCL in SQL manages transactions
  - COMMIT: Saves changes permanently
  - ROLL BACK: Reverts changes to the last commit
  - SAVE POINT: Creates a checkpoint in a transaction
  - Example:
  - BEGIN TRANSACTION;
  - UPDATE Employee SET salary = 5000 WHERE Employee_ID = 1;
  - SAVEPOINT Before_Raise;
  - UPDATE Employees SET salary = 7000 WHERE Employee_ID = 1;
  - ROLLBACK Before_Raise;
- Implement a cursor in SQL
  - Cursors are used to process rows individually in a result set
  - Example:
  - DECLARE cursor_name CURSOR FOR
  - SELECT emp_name FROM employees;
  - OPEN cursor_name;
  - FETCH NEXT FROM cursor_name;
  - CLOSE cursor_name;
  - DEALLOCATE cursor_name;
- What are TRIGGERS in SQL?
  -  A TRIGGER is an SQL procedure that runs automatically when certain events occur (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE)
  -  Used for maintaining logs, enforcing business rules, etc.,
  -  Example:
  -  CREATE TRIGGER after_insert
  -  AFTER_INSERT logs (action) VALUES('New Employee Added')
- What is an index in SQL? What are its types?
  - Indexes improve query performance by speeding up the data retrieval
  - Example:
  - CREATE INDEX idx_name ON employees(emp_name)
  - Types of indexes:
    - Clustered index: Sorts and stores in physical order
    - Non - clustered index: Stores pointers to actual order
    - Unique index: Ensures all values in a column are unique
    - Compoiste index: Indexes on multiple columns
- What is the use of GROUP BY in SQL?
  - GROPU BY is used to group rows that have same values in specified columns
  - It allows performing aggregate functions like COUNT, SUM , AVG, etc.,
- What is a VIEW in SQL?
  - A VIEW in SQL is a virtual table based on SELECT query
  - It does not store data physically but provides a way to simplify complex queries
  - Example:
  - CREATE VIEW EmployeeView AS
  - SELECT EmployeeID, Name, Department
  - FROM Employees
  - WHERE Department = 'IT';
  - SELECT * FROM EmployeeView;
- Write a SQL query to find the Nth highest salary
  - SELECT DISTINCT salary
  - FROM employees
  - ORDER BY salary DESC
  - LIMIT 1 OFFSET N - 1;
- Join the following three tables:
- Employees (Employee_ID, Name, Department_ID)
- Departments (Department_ID, Department_Name)
- Salaries (Employee_ID, Salary)
  - SELECT E.NAME, D.Department_Name, S.Salary
  - FROM Employee E
  - INNER JOIN Departments D ON D.Department_ID = E.Department_ID
  - INNER JOIN Salaries S On E.Employee_ID = S.Employee_ID;
    
### DBMS Questions

- Why DBMS is better than file system?
- ER diagram with example
- Normalization and its types
- ACID Properties
- Transaction State
- What is indexing?
  - Indexing in databases is a technique to optimize the retrieval of rows from a table based on search conditions
  - Types of indexing
    - Primary Indexing
    - Secondary Indexing
    - Cluster Indexing
    - Multi - level Indexing
  
### HR Questions

- Tell me about yourself
- What are your career goals and how does this opportunity align with them?
- What motivates you to work?
- What are your strengths and weaknesses?
- Why should we hire you?
- Can you describe a time when you worked efficiently as part of a team?
- Can you describe the project that you worked on? and the technologies used?
- Design a challenging situation you faced and how you overcome it?
- Give an example of a time when you had to manage multiple priorities
- How do you handle criticism and feedback?
- How do you handle pressure and tight deadlines?
- Tell me something about the company?
- Why do you want to join our company?
- What was your role during internship?
- What are the qualities of a good leader?
- What would you do if you were working in a project and encountered you couldn't resolve on your own?
- How would you approach learning a new technology or skill that's essential for this opportunity?
- How would you approach solving a specific technical problem related to the role?
- How do you stay updated with the latest industry trneds and technologies?
- How will you run a campaign for a specific product in a rural area?
  - Strategy:
    - Market Research: Identify target audience
    - Localized Advertising: Use regional language ads
    - Leverage Digital & Traditional Media:
      - Mobile SMS
      - WhatsApp Promotions
      - Community Radio Ads
      - Door-to-Door Marketing
    - Partnerships: Collaborate with local influencers and retailers
    - Product Demonstrations: Conduct local fairs and free trials
    - Affordable Pricing & Easy Access: Ensure distribution through local shops
- Do you have any questions for me?
  - Yes, I’d love to know more about the team I’d be working with.
  - What does a typical day in this role look like?

### Other Questions

- What is the difference between GET and POST methods in HTTP?
- What is SDLC?
  - Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is a structured approach to software development.
  - It includes several phases such as requirement analysis, design, implementation, testing, deployment, and maintenance.
  - SDLC Models:
    - Waterfall Model
    - Agile Model
    - Spiral Model
    - V-Model
    - Iterative Model
- Why C and C++ are OS independent and java being OS independent?
  - When C or C++ files gets executed, the source code is converted to .exe file which runs on specific OS
  - Whereas in Java, the source code is not directly executed but it gets converted to byte code which requires JVM
  - JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is kinda platform that executes the converted byte code irrevelant of any knid of OS
  - So, C or C++ is OS dependent and Java is OS independent but the JVM is OS dependent
  - i.e., JVM for Mac cannot be executed on Linux
- What do you mean by process and thread?
  - Process: A process is an active instance of a program that resides in memory while it is executing.
  - It is independent and has its own memory space
  - Thread: A thread is the smallest unit of execution within a process.
  - Multiple threads can exist within a process, sharing the same memory and resources but performing different tasks.
- What is memory management?
  - Memory management refers to the processes of efficiently handling computer memory resources, including allocation, tracking, and deallocation.
  - It ensures that memory is utilized effectively and that the system doesn’t run out of the system
- What is Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)?
    - A CNN is a deep learning model used for image processing.
    - It consists of:
      - Convolutional Layers - Detects pattern like edges in images
      - Pooling Layers - Reduces dimensions to speed up computation
      - Fully Connected Layers - Makes final classifications
      - Softmax Layer - Outputs possibilities for different classes
- What are the activation functions?
  - Activation functions in neural networks determine the output of a node.
  - Common types:
    - Sigmoid - Used for binary classification ( values between 0 and 1 )
    - ReLU (Rectified Linear Unit) - Common in deep learning (removes negative values)
    - Tanh - Maps values between -1 and 1
    - Softmax - Used in multi-class classification
- What do you know about cloud technology?
  - Cloud technology provides on-demand cloud services over the internet
  - Types of Cloud:
    - Public cloud
    - Private cloud
    - Hybrid cloud
  - Services:
    - IaaS (Infrastructure-as-a-Service) - AWS EC2 Instance, Azure VM
    - PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service) - Heroku, Firebase
    - SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) - Google Drive, Gmail